hello can you hear me okay just type in
yes if you can hear me
all right so we're going to be looking
today at speaking and I'm going to give
you some tips for what to do and what
not to do to be successful than the out
speaking test so what do you have to do
in the art speaking test well as most of
you probably know there are three parts
the first part you need to answer
questions about yourself this is what we
call small talk this is where the
examiner will ask you questions like
what's your name where are you from
where do you live what do you study what
kind of work do you do
general information personal information
the second part of the test you'll have
to give a short presentation or tell a
story about a specific incident or
experience that you've had in the third
part you're going to be discussing ideas
or giving your opinion about certain
things related to the short presentation
topic so let's look at part 1 the
introduction and interview and how to
make small talk this is the section
where the examiner will ask you a few
questions this will be background
information about you try to keep your
sentences or your answers no shorter
than one sentence and no longer than two
sentences in this section so for example
where do you come from where do you live
and do you have a big family let's have
a look at a few example answers to these
questions again your answer should be
one to two sentences so you need to be
able to elaborate not just give one-word
answers for example where do you come
from if I said I originally come from
Lebanon now this answer is okay but it's
too short it's not elaborate enough I
should
give a bit more information I'm
originally from Lebanon my family comes
from a small town in the mountains about
a 30-minute drive without traffic to the
capital city they don't now this is a
better answer
because it's two sentences and I'm
giving a little bit more information
about where I come from not just the
name of the country but some information
about my town as well where do you live
I live in Melbourne wrong too short not
enough information it's not showing off
your ability to speak this is a speaking
test so you need to give the examiner
enough information to be able to assist
you're speaking a better answer would be
where do you live I live in the south
eastern suburbs of Melbourne with a
friend we share an apartment and it's a
very nice neighborhood but the rent
there is quite expensive so here I've
answered the question with a bit more
detail where do I live rather than just
saying I live in Melbourne I've said
which part of Melbourne the south
eastern suburbs and I've also said who I
live with and a little bit of a
description about the neighborhood
nothing too long
maximum two sentences so better answer
question three do you have a big family
yes I have a big family wrong again not
enough information I need to elaborate
yes I do I have three sisters and many
cousins my parents both have a lot of
siblings so combined we are we are a
huge family I've given a bit more
information there I said yes I have a
big family and I've explained what I
mean by that I've said I have three
sisters and many cousins my parents both
have a lot of siblings so combined we
are a huge family so I've given a bit
more detail again two sentences max okay
but two we want to tell a story so
you're going to be given a task hard
with a question usually related to an
experience that you've had it can be a
movie that you've seen recently a memory
or from your childhood a trip that you
have taken a place that you have visited
a festival that you have attended in
your city so it's all going to be
related to a personal experience so this
is where you have to tell a story you
need to make it interesting so add
interesting details where the true or
untrue I find the easiest way to do this
is to tell a true story or think about a
true thing that happened but make it
more interesting by maybe are
embellishing on the details a little bit
meaning take the central idea as
something that really happened but then
add some more untruths just to elaborate
and make it more interesting so let's
look at an example here
talk about a road trip that you have
taken you just said who you went with
where you went
what happened and explain why you
enjoyed it or didn't enjoy it now when I
did the IELTS this was actually the task
card that I got and I haven't really
taken many road trips in my life so I
pretty much had to make it up and I had
one minute to do that because they give
you one minute with a pencil to take
some notes I'm going to show you two
answers um yeah I'm going to show you
two answers and then we'll talk about
them answer one I will talk about a road
trip I recently took I went with my
friend from Adelaide where I worked with
my friend who Adelaide we drove along
the great ocean road it was a long drive
and we stopped a few places along the
way to take pictures of beautiful
scenery we met some other tourists and
they were really nice
we went can't be
hiking and made a fire I enjoyed this
trip because it was fun and interesting
okay let's have a look at a second
answer and let's compare them I recently
had one of the best experiences of my
life since living in Australia
I took a road trip along the Great Ocean
Road on the way to Adelaide with a
lifelong friend along the way we ran out
of petrol
now this disaster actually became a
great adventure some tourists were
driving past and asked if we needed help
there are a bunch of German girls who
were actually camping and asked if we
would like to join them for the night
that night for the first time ever I
camped on a beach made of fire swam in
the ocean at midnight and made some
amazing new friends after two days of
unexpected experiences the girls drove
us to a petrol station and we got a pet
a can of petrol to put in our car we
parted ways and continued on our journey
this experience was so memorable because
it taught me that sometimes good things
can come from unexpected disasters if
you're open and flexible now which one
of these answers and is more interesting
A or B
so let's compare I will talk about a
road trip I recently took rather than
saying or starting your presentation
with I will talk about just talk about
it don't announce what you will talk
about okay so if we have a look at the
first line I will talk about a road trip
compared to I recently had one of the
best experiences of my life since living
in Australia isn't that a more
interesting and intriguing way to start
a presentation and then I go on to say I
took a road trip along the great ocean
road on the way to Adelaide with a
friend so I'm answering the question
explaining about a road trip who I went
with what happened we ran out of petrol
why was it interesting because I got to
do all of these things that I had never
done before and let me go back and see
yeah what happened and while you enjoyed
it
so I've explained here that I said
because it taught me a lesson it taught
me that good things can come from what
you think is a disaster so I've put a
bit of thought into it now what this
actually is is a combination of a lot of
different stories that have actually
happened
um the German tourists was actually from
another experience that I had not
particularly this one so I just sort of
took bits and pieces from from different
memories and put them all together into
one story to make it interesting purely
because I've never really had a road
trip before so if you do happen to get a
prompt to talk about something that you
haven't experienced don't freak out just
see it as an opportunity to be a little
bit creative and merge different
memories or most different stories
together
so I basically bluffed it or fluffed my
my part too
okay so and I answered all parts of the
question so talk about a road trip that
I've taken and here I said one of the
most or the best experiences of my life
who you went with I went with a lifelong
friend where you went to the Great Ocean
Road as you can see you don't have to
answer these in order okay it doesn't
have to your answers don't have to
follow the same water as a task card as
long as you in some way or another
address the points to say what happened
this is the like the body of my
presentation we ran out of petrol we met
these tourists they invited us to camp
with them we made new friends blah blah
blah and why I enjoyed it because it
taught me a life lesson so as you can
see I answered all parts but not
necessarily in order okay part three the
discussion this is a chance for you to
really show off your vocabulary and show
off your thoughts and ideas and opinions
on things so one way to do that is to
explain how or why you think something
and you can do this by giving examples
you can also embellish by adding further
specific details and you can be
thoughtful so reflect on your ideas now
I'm going to show you what I mean by all
of these now part 3 the questions are
usually going to be related loosely to
the topic in part 2 so if part 2 was
about a road trip part 3 could be
questions related to travel so question
1 what do people learn from traveling
how should tourists behave when they
visit your country and what do you think
is the best way for tourists to travel
if they want to learn about your country
now
as you can see these questions are not
related to you personally and they're
not related to your experience they're
related to your ideas and opinions on
things now what happens if you've never
really thought about these questions or
you've never really reflected on these
ideas and it's okay you just need to be
able to to find a way to answer it and
if that means formulating your thoughts
as you're speaking that's fine
one way to buy yourself some time rather
than freezing and going silent or
mumbling and fumbling with a and really
getting yourself nervous honesty is the
best policy so you can actually say to
the examiner well to be honest I've
never really thought of this before i I
just need a moment to think about it
or that's really an interesting question
you know it's not something I've
considered before let me have a think
about that so there's nothing wrong with
saying such things number one it shows
that you're being thoughtful number two
it shows that you're actually able to
formulate and express yourself when you
don't know the answer to something and
it also relaxes you a little bit and
gives you a little bit of time to think
okay let's have a look at some examples
to these questions question one what do
people learn from traveling people learn
a lot of things from traveling such as
independence and knowledge of different
cultures now this answer might seem fine
but have I elaborated have i embellished
and was it very thoughtful haven't
really elaborated that much or given
examples or details okay plus in this
part of the test part three you want to
give longer answers maybe two to three
sentences so let's look at another
example what do people learn from
traveling I think one thing they
independence what I mean by this is that
when you travel you have to rely on you
have to rely on yourself for example
when I was traveling through Europe I
had to find my way on the Metro on my
own and this was a challenge but I
learned to have confidence in myself
much better answer than the previous one
I have elaborated so although in the
previous answer I said one thing people
can learn from travelling is
independence
well here I've elaborated by saying what
I mean by this is what do I mean by
independence I've explained ok I've
embellished by giving an example of when
I was traveling through Europe and I was
thoughtful by the saying well how did
that experience impact me well it gave
me confidence and that's another thing
that people can learn from traveling
another possible answer here is I also
think people can learn more about other
cultures which makes them more
open-minded it allows you to see other
ways of living thinking and behaving it
makes you realize that the way of life
in your own country is not necessarily
the right way just a different way so
again I've said traveling can teach
people more about different cultures and
make them open-minded
I've elaborated by explaining how well
it allows you to see other ways of
living and then I was thoughtful by
saying it actually makes you realize
that not one way of living is right is
the only right way another thing I did
was use abstract language so I talked
about concepts like independence and
open-mindedness ok these are abstract
concepts they're ideas and then I
elaborated by explaining what I meant by
that
what does independence mean what does
open-mindedness need and then I
embellished by adding details and
sharing my own experiences and then I
was thoughtful by discussing how these
can have a positive impact
so you can see that part three is is
probably the more challenging and
sophisticated part of the test let's
look at question two
how do tourists behave when they visit
your country or how should tourists
behave when they visit your country
first answer tourists should be
respectful of the country they are
visiting now although this is true
where's my elaboration did I explain
what I meant by respect so I've given
the concept of respect but I haven't
explained what I meant by it
I haven't embellished I haven't given
any example of how you can show respect
when you're visiting someone's country
and I wasn't really thoughtful in maybe
explaining what you can learn from this
so let's look at a better answer
how should tourists behave when they
visit your country
I think sharor should be respectful of
the country they're visiting one way of
showing respect is by trying to learn
the language when I travel to France I
made the effort to learn some basic
phrases before I went and I also tried
to learn when I was there the locals
appreciated that and I got a lot more
out of the experience all right so what
have I done here I have embellished I
sorry I've elaborated I mentioned the
concept of respect and then I elaborated
what do I mean by it well one way to
show respect is by learning the language
then I gave an example for my personal
experience of when I traveled to France
I made an effort to learn basic phrases
then I was thoughtful by saying
reflecting on that experience and saying
the locals appreciated that I made that
effort and I've got more out of the
experience as well so talked about
respect which is an abstract concept I
elaborated by explaining how tourists
consider respect learning in the
language I then added details or an
example of my own experience
and then thoughtfully explain how this
can be of benefit question three what do
you think is the best way for a tourist
to travel if they want to learn about
your country the best way for tours to
learn about my country is by visiting
the local spots okay fine
but that's only part of an answer it's
missing any elaboration or explanation
it's missing examples and it's missing
thoughtfulness let's look at a better
for example here the best way for
tourists to learn about my country is by
visiting the local spots by going to
smaller towns and not just the tourist
attractions you meet locals hear their
stories and experience real life
otherwise you only get the glossy
version of the city and not the real one
for example when some Australian friends
of mine visited Lebanon they stayed with
me invite in my village and got to
experience real home cooking a local
wedding and family life I also took them
to the city the beach the restaurants
and other tourist places but they got to
experience both this gave them in depth
in understanding this gave them an
in-depth understanding of the country
from the inside so this is a longer
answer but you can see that I talked
about the best way for local for
tourists to visit my country is to visit
local spots so not just the cities not
just a tourist attraction so the local
spots then I elaborated by explaining
why is it beneficial you know because
they get to really learn more about the
culture I added details or example from
my own experience when my friends came
to visit my country and was thoughtful
by discussing how this experienced
changed their view of my country and and
gave them you know
a different idea about it okay
so part three is all about explaining
your opinion or explaining your answer
giving an example of your answer and
then give showing some reflection about
it
now how is the IELTS speaking scored so
I'm just going to go through the
criteria with you you're graded are in
four four different categories fluency
vocabulary grammar and pronunciation so
let's start off by looking at fluency
now most of you are going to need
between a six and an eight
so fluency basically is the ability to
speak fluently without hesitation or
repetition now even native speakers
sometimes hesitate or repeat themselves
if they're nervous if they're in an
uncomfortable situation and hesitation
and repetition might happen even to
native speakers so really what you want
to aim for is to allow for some
hesitation and some repetition but
without losing coherence meaning that
even though you might hesitate in places
or repeat yourself you're not losing
your spot you're not having to stop and
start again and you're speaking still
makes sense and the speaker can still
follow you logically so that's fluency
next we have vocabulary vocabulary means
that you can use words and word forms
precisely accurately and naturally now
most of you aren't aiming for a line and
so let's have a look at what you would
need to get a seven or an eight in
vocabulary that you use a wide enough
range of words and although yeah
although there are some
inaccuracies possibly in word choice so
maybe use an inappropriate word instead
of the correct word or you might make an
error in Word form so for example you
might use the singular when you're
supposed to use the plural but these
mistakes don't affect the examiners
ability to understand your message next
we're going to look at grammar so
grammar is related to the tens correct
sentences basically you need to produce
error-free sentences meaning very very
little mistakes so to get a seven
meaning that although you make some
mistakes most of your grammar is correct
to get a six it says uses limited
grammar and makes frequent mistakes
meaning that most of your sentences
contain mistakes all right now to get an
eight it means it's almost perfect with
the occasional error here here or there
and finally we're looking at
pronunciation house pronunciation graded
to get a six it means you can generally
be understood those some words here or
there may be mispronounced and the
examiner may not understand what you're
saying to get a seven it means that
although you have generally good
pronunciation is not consistent there
might be some slips here and then okay
and an eight means that although you
have an accent every word is easy to
understand okay so that's it that's the
out speaking now is the time for
questions if you have any
all right guys well thank you very much
for coming to this live class and I look
forward to seeing y'all next week bye